pub_date	title	venue	excerpt	citation	url_slug	paper_url
2021-08-23	Apprentice for Event Generator Tuning	25th International Conference on Computing in High Energy and Nuclear Physics (CHEP 2021)	APPRENTICE is a tool developed for event generator tuning. It contains a range of conceptual improvements and extensions over the tuning tool Professor. Its core functionality remains the construction of a multivariate analytic surrogate model to computationally expensive Monte-Carlo event generator predictions. The surrogate model is used for numerical optimization in chi-square minimization and likelihood evaluation. Apprentice also introduces algorithms to automate the selection of observable weights to minimize the effect of mis-modeling in the event generators. We illustrate our improvements for the task of MC-generator tuning and limit setting.	"M. Krishnamoorthy, H. Schulz, X. Ju, W. Wang, S. Leyffer, Z. Marshall, S. Mrenna, J. Muller, and J. B.Kowalkowski, Apprentice for Event Generator Tuning. In 25th International Conference on Computing in High-Energy and Nuclear Physics. August 2021."	 CHEP21	https://doi.org/10.1051/epjconf/202125103060
2021-02-01	Stochastic Optimization for Steady State Production Processes based on Deterministic Approximations	" Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Operations Research and Enterprise Systems - ICORES,"	"We consider steady-state production processes that have feasibility constraints and metrics of cost and throughput that are stochastic functions of process controls. We propose an efficient stochastic optimization algorithm for the problem of finding process controls that minimize the expectation of cost while satisfying deterministic feasibility constraints and stochastic steady state demand for the output product with a given high probability. The proposed algorithm is based on (1) a series of deterministic approximations to produce a candidate set of near-optimal control settings for the production process, and (2) stochastic simulations on the candidate set using optimal simulation budget allocation methods. We demonstrate the proposed algorithm on a use case of a real-world heat-sink production process that involves contract suppliers and manufacturers as well as unit manufacturing processes of shearing, milling, drilling, and machining, and conduct an experimental study that sh ows that the proposed algorithm significantly outperforms four popular simulation-based stochastic optimization algorithms."	"M. Krishnamoorthy, A. Brodsky, and D. Menasce, Stochastic Optimization for Steady State Production Processes based on Deterministic Approximations. In the International Conference on Operations Research and Enterprise Systems 2021, February 2021."	 ICORES21	https://doi.org/10.5220/0010343802870294
2018-04-11	Stochastic Decision Optimization based on Deterministic Approximations of Processes described as Closed-form Arithmetic Simulation	IFIP WG 8.3 on Decision Support Systems	"We propose an efficient one-stage stochastic optimisation algorithm for the problem of finding process controls that minimise the expectation of cost while satisfying multiple deterministic and stochastic feasibility constraints with a given high probability. The proposed algorithm is based on a series of deterministic approximations to produce a candidate solution set and on a refinement step using stochastic simulations with optimal simulation budget allocation. We conduct an experimental study for a real-world manufacturing service network, which shows that the proposed algorithm significantly outperforms four popular simulation-based stochastic optimisation algorithms."	"M. Krishnamoorthy, A. Brodsky, and D. Menasce, Stochastic Decision Optimization based on Deterministic Approximations of Processes described as Closed-form Arithmetic Simulation. In Proceedings of the IFIP WG 8.3 on Decision Support Systems, June 2018. Best Paper Award."	 IFIPDSS18	https://doi.org/10.1080/12460125.2018.1468174
2017-12-11	"Manufacturing and Contract Service Networks: Composition, Optimization and Tradeoff Analysis based on a Reusable Repository of Performance Models"	 2017 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Big Data)	"In this paper we report on the development of a software framework and system for composition, optimization and trade-off analysis of manufacturing and contract service networks based on a reusable repository of performance models. Performance models formally describe process feasibility constraints and metrics of interest, such as cost, throughput and CO 2 emissions, as a function of fixed and control parameters, such as equipment and contract properties and settings. The repository contains performance models for (1) unit manufacturing processes, (2) base contract services, and (3) a composite steady-state service network. The proposed framework allows process engineers to (1) hierarchically compose model instances of service networks, which can represent production cells, lines, factory facilities and supply chains, and (2) perform deterministic optimization based on mathematical programming and Pareto-optimal trade-off analysis. We case study the framework on a service network for a heat sink product which involves contract vendors and manufacturers, unit manufacturing process services including cutting/shearing and Computer Numerical Control (CNC) machining with milling and drilling steps, quality inspection, finishing and assembly."	"A. Brodsky, M. Krishnamoorthy, M. O. Nachawati, and W.Z. Bernstein, and D Menasce, Manufacturing and Contract Service Networks: Composition, Optimization and Tradeoff Analysis based on a Reusable Repository of Performance Models. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE International Conference on Big Data, Boston, MA. December 2017."	 IEEEBD17	https://doi.org/10.1109/BigData.2017.8258114
2016-12-08	A System and Architecture for Reusable Abstractions of Manufacturing Processes	2016 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Big Data)	"In this paper we report on the development of a system for managing a repository and conducting analysis and optimization on manufacturing performance models. The repository is designed to contain (1) unit manufacturing process performance models, (2) composite performance models representing production cells, lines, and facilities, (3) domain specific analytical views, and (4) ontologies and taxonomies. Initial implementation includes performance models for milling and drilling as well as a composite performance model for machining. These performance models formally capture (1) the metrics of energy consumption, CO 2 emissions, tool wear, and cost as a function of process controls and parameters, and (2) the process feasibility constraints. The initial scope of the system includes (1) an Integrated Development Environment and its interface, and (2) simulation and deterministic optimization of performance models through the use of Unity Decision Guidance Management System."	"A. Brodsky, M. Krishnamoorthy, W. Z. Bernstein, and M. O. Nachawati, A System and Architecture for Reusable Abstractions of Manufacturing Processes. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE International Conference on Big Data, Washington DC. December 2016."	 IEEEBD16	https://doi.org/10.1109/BigData.2016.7840823
2016-01-08	Modular Modeling and Optimization of Temporal Manufacturing Processes with Inventories	2016 49th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences (HICSS)	"Smart manufacturing requires streamlining operations and optimizing processes at a global and local level. This paper considers temporal manufacturing processes that involve physical or virtual inventories of products, parts and materials that move through a network of subprocesses. The inventory levels vary with time and are a function of the configuration settings of the machines involved in the process. These environments require analysis, e.g., answering what-if questions, and optimization to determine optimal operating settings for the entire process. To address this problem, the paper proposes modular process components that can represent these manufacturing environments at various levels of granularity for performing what-if analysis and decision optimization queries. These components are extensible and reusable against which optimization and what-if questions can be posed. Additionally, the paper describes the steps to translate these complex components and optimization queries into a formal mathematical programming model, which is then solved by a commercial optimization solver."	"M. Krishnamoorthy, A. Brodsky, and D. Menasce, Modular Modeling and Optimization of Temporal Manufacturing Processes with Inventories. In Proceedings of the 2016 Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Kauai, HI. January 2016."	HICSS16	https://doi.org/10.1109/HICSS.2016.177
2015-11-01	Analysis and optimization in smart manufacturing based on a reusable knowledge base for process performance models	2015 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Big Data)	"In this paper, we propose an architectural design and software framework for fast development of descriptive, diagnostic, predictive, and prescriptive analytics solutions for dynamic production processes. The proposed architecture and framework will support the storage of modular, extensible, and reusable Knowledge Base (KB) of process performance models. The approach requires the development of automatic methods that can translate the high-level models in the reusable KB into low-level specialized models required by a variety of underlying analysis tools, including data manipulation, optimization, statistical learning, estimation, and simulation. We also propose an organization and key structure for the reusable KB, composed of atomic and composite process performance models and domain-specific dashboards. Furthermore, we illustrate the use of the proposed architecture and framework by performing diagnostic tasks on a composite performance model."	"A. Brodsky, G. Shao, M. Krishnamoorthy, A. Narayanan, D Menasce, and R. Ak, Analysis and optimization in smart manufacturing based on a reusable knowledge base for process performance models. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE International Conference on Big Data, Santa Clara, CA. November 2015."	IEEEBD15	https://doi.org/10.1109/BigData.2015.7363902
2015-01-16	Optimizing Stochastic Temporal Manufacturing Processes with Inventories: An Efficient Heuristic Algorithm Based on Deterministic Approximations	2015 INFORMS Computing Society Conference	"This paper deals with stochastic temporal manufacturing processes with work-in-process inventories in which multiple products are produced from raw materials and parts. The processes may be composed of subprocesses, which, in turn may be either composite or atomic, i.e., a machine on a manufacturing floor. We assume that machines' throughput is stochastic and so are work-in- process inventories and costs. We consider the problem of optimizing the process, that is, finding throughput expectation setting for each machine at each time point over the time horizon as to minimize the total cost of production subject to satisfying the production demand with a requested probability. To address this problem, we propose an efficient iterative heuristic algorithms that is based on (1) producing high quality candidate machine settings based on a deterministic approxima- tion of the stochastic problem, and (2) running stochastic simulations to find the best machine setting out of the produced candidates using optimal simulation budget allocation methods. We conduct an experimental study that shows that our algorithm significantly outperforms four popular simulation-based optimization algorithms."""	"M. Krishnamoorthy, A. Brodsky, and D. Menasce, Optimizing Stochastic Temporal Manufacturing Processes with Inventories: An Efficient Heuristic Algorithm Based on Deterministic Approximations. In Proceedings of 2015 INFORMS Computing Soc. Conf., Richmond, VA. January 2015"	ICS15	https://doi.org/10.1287/ICS.2015.0003
2015-01-15	"Temporal manufacturing query language (tMQL) for domain specific composition, what-if analysis, and optimization of manufacturing processes with inventories"	"Technical Report Department of Computer Science, George Mason University"	"Smart manufacturing requires streamlining operations and optimizing processes at a global and local level. This paper considers manufacturing processes that involve physical or virtual inventories of products, parts and materials, that move from machine to machine. The inventory levels vary with time and are a function of the configuration settings of the machines involved in the process. These environments require analysis, e.g., answering what-if questions, and optimization to deter- mine optimal operating settings for the entire process. The modeling complexities in performing these tasks are not always within the grasp of production engineers. To address this problem, the paper proposes the tempo- ral Manufacturing Query Language (tMQL) that allows the composition of modular process models for what-if analysis and decision optimization queries. tQML sup- ports an extensible and reusable model knowledge base against which declarative queries can be posed. Addi- tionally, the paper describes the steps to translate the components of a tMQL model to input data files used by a commercial optimization solver."	"M. Krishnamoorthy, A. Brodsky, and D. A. Menasce, Temporal manufacturing query language (tMQL) for domain specific composition, what-if analysis, and optimization of manufacturing processes with inventories. Technical Report Department of Computer Science, George Mason University, 2014. Also presented at the 2015 INFORMS Computing Soc. Conf. workshop, Richmond, VA. January 2015."	 GMU14	https://cs.gmu.edu/media/techreports/GMU-CS-TR-2014-3.pdf
2014-10-30	Toward Smart Manufacturing Using Decision Analytics	 2014 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Big Data)	"This paper is focused on decision analytics for smart manufacturing. We consider temporal manufacturing processes with stochastic throughput and inventories. We demonstrate the use of the recently proposed concept of the decision guidance analytics language to perform monitoring, analysis, planning, and execution tasks. To support these tasks we define the structure of and develop modular reusable process component models, which represent data, decision/control variables, computation of functions, constraints, and uncertainty. The tasks are then implemented by posing declarative queries of the decision guidance analytics language for data manipulation, what-if prediction analysis, decision optimization, and machine learning."	"A. Brodsky, M. Krishnamoorthy, D. Menasce, G. Shao, and S.Rachuri, Toward Smart Manufacturing Using Decision Analytics. In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE International Conference on Big Data, Washington DC. October 2014."""	IEEEBD14	https://doi.org/10.1109/BigData.2014.7004330