pub_date	title	venue	excerpt	citation	url_slug	paper_url
2022-01-17	BROOD: Bilevel and Robust Optimization and Outlier Detection for Efficient Tuning of High-Energy Physics Event Generators.	SciPost Physics	"The parameters in Monte Carlo (MC) event generators are tuned on experimental measurements by evaluating the goodness of fit between the data and the MC predictions. The relative importance of each measurement is adjusted manually in an often time-consuming, iterative process to meet different experimental needs. In this work, we introduce several optimization formulations and algorithms with new decision criteria for streamlining and automating this process. These algorithms are designed for two formulations: bilevel optimization and robust optimization. Both formulations are applied to the datasets used in the ATLAS A14 tune and to the dedicated hadronization datasets generated by the Sherpa generator, respectively. The corresponding tuned generator parameters are compared using three metrics. We compare the quality of our automatic tunes to the published ATLAS A14 tune. Moreover, we analyze the impact of a pre-processing step that excludes data that cannot be described by the physics models used in the MC event generators."	"W. Wang, M. Krishnamoorthy, J. Muller, S. Mrenna, H. Schulz, X. Ju, S. Leyffer, and Z. Marshall, BROOD: Bilevel and Robust Optimization and Outlier Detection for Efficient Tuning of High-Energy Physics Event Generators. In the SciPost Physics. January 2022."	SCIPOST22	https://dx.doi.org/10.21468/SciPostPhysCore.5.1.001
2020-04-01	Practical algorithms for multivariate rational approximation	Computer Physics Communications	"We present two approaches for computing rational approximations to multivariate functions, motivated by their effectiveness as surrogate models for high-energy physics (HEP) applications. Our first approach builds on the Stieltjes process to efficiently and robustly compute the coefficients of the rational approximation. Our second approach is based on an optimization formulation that allows us to include structural constraints on the rational approximation (in particular, constraints demanding the absence of singularities), resulting in a semi-infinite optimization problem that we solve using an outer approximation approach. We present results for synthetic and real-life HEP data, and we compare the approximation quality of our approaches with that of traditional polynomial approximations."	"A. Austin, M. Krishnamoorthy, S. Leyffer, S. Mrenna, J. Muller, and H. Schulz, Practical algorithms for multivariate rational approximation. In the Computer Physics Communications, October 2020."	CPC20	http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2020.107663
2018-12-14	Factory optima: a web-based system for composition and analysis of manufacturing service networks based on a reusable model repository	International Journal of Computer Integrated Manufacturing 	"This paper reports on the development of Factory Optima, a web-based system that allows manufacturing process engineers to compose, optimise and perform trade-off analysis of manufacturing and contract service networks based on a reusable repository of performance models. Performance models formally describe process feasibility constraints and metrics of interest, such as cost, throughput and CO2 emissions, as a function of fixed and control parameters, such as equipment and contract properties and settings. The repository contains performance models representing (1) unit manufacturing processes, (2) base contract services and (3) a composite steady-state service network. The proposed framework allows process engineers to hierarchically compose model instances of service networks, which can represent production cells, lines, factory facilities and supply chains, and perform deterministic optimisation based on mathematical programming and Pareto-optimal trade-off analysis. Factory Optima is demonstrated using a case study of a service network for a heat sink product which involves contract vendors and manufacturing activities, including cutting, shearing, Computer Numerical Control (CNC) machining with milling and drilling operations, quality inspection, finishing, and assembly."	"A. Brodsky, M. O. Nachawati, M. Krishnamoorthy, W. Z. Bernstein, and D. A. Menasce, Factory optima: a web-based system for composition and analysis of manufacturing service networks based on a reusable model repository. In the International Journal of Computer Integrated Manufacturing, February 2019."	 IJCIM19	http://doi.org/10.1080/0951192X.2019.1570805
2018-04-11	Stochastic Decision Optimization based on Deterministic Approximations of Processes described as Closed-form Arithmetic Simulation	Journal of Decision Systems 	"We propose an efficient one-stage stochastic optimisation algorithm for the problem of finding process controls that minimise the expectation of cost while satisfying multiple deterministic and stochastic feasibility constraints with a given high probability. The proposed algorithm is based on a series of deterministic approximations to produce a candidate solution set and on a refinement step using stochastic simulations with optimal simulation budget allocation. We conduct an experimental study for a real-world manufacturing service network, which shows that the proposed algorithm significantly outperforms four popular simulation-based stochastic optimisation algorithms."	"M. Krishnamoorthy, A. Brodsky, and D. Menase, Stochastic Decision Optimization based on Deterministic Approximations of Processes described as Closed-form Arithmetic Simulation. In the Journal of Decision Systems. May 2018."	JDS18	http://doi.org/10.1080/12460125.2018.1468174
2016-04-23	Analysis and Optimization in Smart Manufacturing based on a Reusable Knowledge Base for Process Performance Models	The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology 	"In this paper, we propose an architectural design and software framework for fast development of descriptive, diagnostic, predictive, and prescriptive analytics solutions for dynamic production processes. The proposed architecture and framework will support the storage of modular, extensible, and reusable knowledge base (KB) of process performance models. The approach requires developing automated methods that can translate the high-level models in the reusable KB into low-level specialized models required by a variety of underlying analysis tools, including data manipulation, optimization, statistical learning, estimation, and simulation. We also propose an organization and key structure for the reusable KB, composed of atomic and composite process performance models and domain-specific dashboards. Furthermore, we illustrate the use of the proposed architecture and framework by prototyping a decision support system for process engineers. The decision support system allows users to hierarchically compose and optimize dynamic production processes via a graphical user interface."	"A. Brodsky, G. Shao, M. Krishnamoorthy, A. Narayanan, D Menasce, and R. Ak, Analysis and Optimization in Smart Manufacturing based on a Reusable Knowledge Base for Process Performance Models. In the International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology. April 2016."	IJAMT16	http://doi.org/10.1007/s00170-016-8761-7
2015-03-12	Autonomic smart manufacturing	Journal of Decision Systems 	"Smart manufacturing (SM) systems have to optimise manufacturing activities at the machine, unit or entire manufacturing facility level as well as adapting the manufacturing process on the fly as required by a variety of conditions (e.g. machine breakdowns and/or slowdowns) and unexpected variations in demands. This paper provides a framework for autonomic smart manufacturing (ASM) that relies on a variety of models for its support: (1) a process model to represent machines, parst inventories and the flow of parts through machines in a discrete manufacturing floor; (2) a predictive queueing network model to support the analysis and planning phases of ASM; and (3) optimisation models to support the planning phase of ASM. In essence, ASM is an integrated decision support system for smart manufacturing that combines models of different nature in a seamless manner. As shown here, these models can be used to predict manufacturing time and the energy consumed by the manufacturing process, as well as for finding the machine settings that minimise the energy consumed or the manufacturing time subject to a variety of constraints using non-linear optimisation models. The diversity of models used affords different levels of integration and granularity in the decision-making process. An example of a car manufacturing process is used throughout the paper to explain the concepts and models introduced here."	"D. Menasce, M. Krishnamoorthy, and A. Brodsky, Autonomic smart manufacturing. In the Journal of Decision Systems, Special Issue on Integrated Decision Support Systems, June 2015."	 JDS15	http://doi.org/10.1080/12460125.2015.1046714
2013-08-21	A multiple-alignment based primer design algorithm for genetically highly variable DNA targets	BMC Bioinformatics	"Background: Primer design for highly variable DNA sequences is difficult, and experimental success requires attention to many interacting constraints. The advent of next-generation sequencing methods allows the investigation of rare variants otherwise hidden deep in large populations, but requires attention to population diversity and primer localization in relatively conserved regions, in addition to recognized constraints typically considered in primer design. Results: Design constraints include degenerate sites to maximize population coverage, matching of melting temperatures, optimizing de novo sequence length, finding optimal bio-barcodes to allow efficient downstream analyses, and minimizing risk of dimerization. To facilitate primer design addressing these and other constraints, we created a novel computer program (PrimerDesign) that automates this complex procedure. We show its powers and limitations and give examples of successful designs for the analysis of HIV-1 populations. Conclusions: PrimerDesign is useful for researchers who want to design DNA primers and probes for analyzing highly variable DNA populations. It can be used to design primers for PCR, RT-PCR, Sanger sequencing, next-generation sequencing, and other experimental protocols targeting highly variable DNA samples."	"J. Brodin, M. Krishnamoorthy, G. Athreya, W. Fischer, P. Hraber, C. Gleasner, L. Green, B. Korber, and T. Leitner, A multiple-alignment based primer design algorithm for genetically highly variable DNA targets. In BMC bioinformatics Journal, August 2013."	BMCbio13	http://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2105-14-255
2011-02-09	Tree pruner: An efficient tool for selecting data from a biased genetic database	BMC Bioinformatics	"Background: Large databases of genetic data are often biased in their representation. Thus, selection of genetic data with desired properties, such as evolutionary representation or shared genotypes, is problematic. Selection on the basis of epidemiological variables may not achieve the desired properties. Available automated approaches to the selection of influenza genetic data make a tradeoff between speed and simplicity on the one hand and control over quality and contents of the dataset on the other hand. A poorly chosen dataset may be detrimental to subsequent analyses. Results: We developed a tool, Tree Pruner, for obtaining a dataset with desired evolutionary properties from a large, biased genetic database. Tree Pruner provides the user with an interactive phylogenetic tree as a means of editing the initial dataset from which the tree was inferred. The tree visualization changes dynamically, using colors and shading, reflecting Tree Pruner actions. At the end of a Tree Pruner session, the editing actions are implemented in the dataset.Currently, Tree Pruner is implemented on the Influenza Research Database (IRD). The data management capabilities of the IRD allow the user to store a pruned dataset for additional pruning or for subsequent analysis. Tree Pruner can be easily adapted for use with other organisms. Conclusions: Tree Pruner is an efficient, manual tool for selecting a high-quality dataset with desired evolutionary properties from a biased database of genetic sequences. It offers an important alternative to automated approaches to the same goal, by providing the user with a dynamic, visual guide to the ongoing selection process and ultimate control over the contents (and therefore quality) of the dataset."	"M. Krishnamoorthy, P. Patel, M. Dimitrijevic, J. Dietrich, M. Green, and C. Macken, Tree pruner: An efficient tool for selecting data from a biased genetic database. In BMC bioinformatics Journal, January 2011."	BMCbio11	http://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2105-12-51